[Music]
like it or not life is full of regrets
and embarrassing moments you sleep
through your alarm and miss a fly spill
coffee on your shirt
call your date by the wrong name whoo
that's a felony is there a way to take
it all back true only in an alternative
universe
wait but could you really when you look
up at the night sky you see thousands of
bright shiny little dots we've come to
call stars at least in the English
language then there's that big cheesy
looking thing yeah the moon when you
look at the same sky using the most
powerful telescopes you'll see even more
stars in galaxies spread around space in
a sphere about 92 billion light-years in
diameter this is already impressive and
huge but does it all end there can you
actually go beyond that sphere science
says probably well that's anticlimactic
physicists call this concept the
multiverse so while the universe
technically means everything that exists
the multiverse means an infinite number
of those everything's yes there's not
just one alternate or parallel universe
like you see in movies TV shows and so
on there's an uncountable number of
universes that exist side by side in
higher dimensions that we can't even
perceive or observe in each of those
universes there's an alternate copy of
yourself that looks a lot like you only
they make different choices that lead to
different outcomes on a daily basis one
of those yous might have set three
alarms woke up no problem and didn't
miss the flight to your sister's wedding
then in some other universe you never
skip physics in high school went on to
study it in college and became an
awesome scientist who discovers the
multiverse yeah
hey maybe in one of those versions you
called that date by the right name and
he too ended up being soul mates or
maybe you saved yourself in this one
what if
they were learning anyway all of this
sounds pretty awesome as it gives
endless opportunities but is there any
scientific proof that it could be real
to answer that question let's start
small in the universe be it ours or some
parallel kind everything is connected
the smallest things directly influence
the largest things everything in that
universe including you and me is made of
atoms atoms in turn are made up of
electrons protons and neutrons we'll
skip the morons for now quantum physics
that's the science that studies all
these teeny tiny particles say electrons
have a super power instead of just
moving in one direction they can spend
both clockwise and counterclockwise now
atoms powered with these super particles
can do plenty of things they can go to
the left or right they can jump up and
down spin and whatnot but according to
quantum physics they don't choose just
one option but to everything they
possibly can at the same time the
multiverse concept is based on the same
idea anything that can happen actually
does happen somewhere out there every
possible combination of particles and
every possible scenario gives birth to a
different universe one of such possible
scenarios brought our universe into
existence billions of years ago before
the Big Bang the universe was a superhot
small dense point with no stars or any
form or structure whatsoever about 13.8
billion years ago give or take this tiny
point started expanding at a crazy speed
atoms were formed and then stars and
galaxies all this expansion never really
stopped it just slowed down to this day
galaxies keep moving away from each
other as the space fabric between them
is being stretched well this is
happening other universes pop up into
existence some of them have no atoms
galaxies or living beings because they
may be expanding or collapsing way too
fast but there must be others that are
more like
our universe with many alternate
versions of you and me as long as it's
possible for life to evolve it'll
continue to do so
just like there's an infinite number of
combinations of particles and universes
there's an infinite number of possible
physical laws ruling in those universes
in one for instance electrons are much
heavier than here energy behaves
differently and gravity is much stronger
than in our world the possibilities are
limitless hey here's something to think
about perhaps in one of those universes
life is two-dimensional I know it breaks
the brain to think about it I guess
would be like looking at a comic book
about your lives what would your comic
book be called and what would be the
best scenes in it let me know down in
the comments here's another cool one to
consider let's say the visible light
spectrum is reversed in one of those
worlds so what you see now as blue would
be orange was red would be green oh that
big yellow Sun in the sky it's now
purple anyway back to the sciency stuff
because space time constantly begins and
stretches it just has to repeat itself
at some point at least that's what
mathematics say but could you ever
travel to another space-time if you
believe there's been more than one Big
Bang traveling to another universe would
be like going back in time to the moment
before our own was born traveling back
in time is really tricky but it's not
completely impossible if you trust the
theory of general relativity why
wouldn't you Einstein was a smart guy
according to his famous theory you could
make a loop out of space-time and travel
through it imagine it like a roller
coaster that would relocate you in both
space and time to the point before you
started the journey Stephen Hawking
however questioned this possibility by
asking why we haven't seen any time
travelers from the future yet as for
travelling to the future
it's also possible according to the same
theorem Einstein believed time is not an
absolute you can actually stretch or
squeeze it all it takes is a certain
speed
if you get close to the speed of light
time will slow down when you stop more
time will have gone by for everyone else
than for you so you'll have traveled to
the future even if it's not by much
another possible option to travel to the
future is based on gravity according to
Einstein's theory gravity slows down
time so time is technically passing by
faster on a mountaintop than at its
bottom the difference is close to
nothing on earth but if you could travel
to a place with a super strong
gravitational pull like a black hole
you'd see some remarkable results if you
move around it a few times its
gravitational field would slow down time
for you you'd be away for many years but
when you came back to earth you'd still
look just as young as you did when you
set out on the journey all this sounds
theoretically possible yet pretty hard
to arrange in real life but it doesn't
mean you should be sad that you can't
travel to an alternate universe in fact
you're already in many of them at this
very moment if the theory of parallel
universes is true you're making every
possible choice you can all the time and
in this way you're constantly travelling
between parallel universes without even
knowing it that should make you feel at
least a little better about any bad
decisions you ever made hey at least me
number 5000 671 never took that
horrendous job I'd waste six years of my
life at then again he wouldn't have
learned so much from that mistake aha
always looking on the bright side with
the technology that currently exists
humans can't see what's beyond our
observable universe meanwhile physicists
are looking for ways to unlock the
mysteries of the multiverse and prove
the existence of parallel universes they
might even find gateways to them in 2012
scientists at the Large Hadron Collider
discovered the Higgs bosons an
elementary particle that gives other
particles their mass without it atoms
and humans never would have formed
scientists can't see these particles yet
but CERN the European Organization for
Nuclear Research
announced their plan to build a larger
more powerful Collider to discover these
particles according to particle
physicists dr. James Beecham if that
doesn't work out then the plan is to go
even further they'd build a particle
collider around the moon to reach
energies tens of thousands of times
larger than currently available the next
step would be building a Collider around
the outer edge of the solar system
however even if scientists find evidence
that other universes exist it's still
unlikely that humans will ever be able
to interact with them but maybe in an
alternative universe they've already
found a way to exchange information and
travel to other universes and times
maybe that oddly dressed guy you saw on
the bus the other day is from another
dimension kind of look like Will Smith -
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend
and here are some other cool videos I
think you'll enjoy just click to the
left or right and remember stay on the
bright side of life
you